[CPS] Core CPS in ML AD content (#7814)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/machine-learning/anomaly-detection/ml-ad-run-jobs.md

The scope control appears on the **Select project scope and data source** step. Choose the project scope and a data source, then select **Next** to continue.

For advanced jobs, the project scope and data source controls appear together on the **Configure {{dfeed}}** step. The scope selector and JSON editor both write to the same `project_routing` field. Changing one updates the other. If the routing expression does not map to a preset, the scope selector shows **Custom**.

#### Default scope behavior

The following default scopes apply to jobs created after {{cps-init}} is available on the project:

* **UI:** Defaults to the space default routing expression, or all linked projects if no space default is configured.
* **API:** Not space-aware. Defaults to all linked projects unless you specify a `project_routing` expression or a qualified index expression.
* **Clone:** Initializes to the original job's `project_routing`. If the original has no stored routing, for example, in the case of a job created before {{cps-init}} was enabled on the project, the clone uses the space default.

> Changes to the space default routing do not retroactively affect existing jobs. Each job retains the `project_routing` that was set at creation or last update. This keeps the model stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes to the space default routing do not retroactively affect existing jobs. Each job retains the `project_routing` that was set at creation or last update, keeping the model stable.
```

Reviewer: I think it reads better as a full sentence.. Take it or leave it.

:::{note}
When setting `project_routing` through the API or JSON editor, {{es}} does not validate the expression at creation time. If the expression matches no linked projects, the job is created successfully but the datafeed fails when it starts. If fields with the same name have different types across linked projects, values that cannot be converted are treated as empty data.
% TODO: add xref to troubleshoot/elasticsearch/machine-learning/cps-datafeed-project-scope.md when PR #7403 merges
:::

### Change project scope on an existing job [ml-ad-cps-update]

You can change a job's project scope in {{kib}} or through the API.

:::{warning}
Changing project scope affects model accuracy. Expect a significant increase in false positives as the detector encounters unfamiliar data characteristics. During the adaptation period, which can last days or weeks, the model might also miss real anomalies as it learns to model the new data distribution.

> If you need a fundamentally different scope, such as moving from origin-only to search across all linked projects, creating a copy of the job with the new routing and retraining from scratch can be faster than waiting for an existing model to adapt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need a fundamentally different scope, such as moving from origin-only to search across all linked projects, creating a copy of the job with the new routing and retraining it from scratch can be faster than waiting for an existing model to adapt.
```

Reviewer: Clarification is just for the it to refer to the copy not the original job. minor nit. take it or leave it.

% TODO: add xref to troubleshoot/elasticsearch/machine-learning/cps-datafeed-scope-change.md when PR #7403 merges
:::

{{es}} retains the pre-change model snapshot indefinitely so you can [revert to it](#ml-ad-model-snapshots) if needed. These snapshots are exempt from the default 10-day retention lifecycle and must be deleted manually.

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} {{kib}}

To change scope for a single job:

1. Open the job's edit panel and go to the **Datafeed** tab.
2. Select the **Project scope** control to open the scope selector, then adjust which projects to include.
3. Save. {{kib}} automatically stops, updates, and restarts the job.

> To update scope for multiple jobs at once, select the jobs on the **Anomaly Detection** page and choose **Change project scope** from the bulk action menu. The scope selector opens so you can set a shared scope. If the selected jobs have different scopes, the scope selector pre-populates with the space default. Adjust the scope and save to apply the new routing to all selected jobs.

Reviewer: Do we use flyoutwhen talking about flyouts? not sure.

Author: yes :) https://www.elastic.co/docs/contribute-docs/style-guide/ui-writing#naming-kibana-ui-elements
